 
1 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Sample Loan Agreement - LOAN AGREEMENT  
 
This Loan Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “ Agreement ”) is executed at the place and on the date mentioned in the 
Schedule by and between:   
  
The borrower whose details are stated in Schedule [hereinafter referred to as the “Borrower” which term shall, unless 
repugnant to the context, be deemed to include the Co -Borrower(s), if any, as detailed in the Schedule hereto and include 
in case of: (a) a proprietorship firm, the proprietor(ess) (both in his/her personal capacity and as propriet or(ess) of the 
concern) and his/her heirs, legal representatives, executors, administrators, permitted assigns and successors), (b) a 
company or limited liability partnership, its successors and permitted assigns, (c) a partnership firm, each of the partners 
and survivor(s) of them and the partners from time to time (both in their personal capacity and as partners of the firm) and 
their respective heirs, legal repre sentatives, executors, administrators, permitted assigns and successors of the firm, (d) in 
case trust, each of the present and future trustees and their respective heirs, legal representatives, executors, 
administrators, permitted assigns and successors o f the trust, and (e) in case a society, each of the present and future 
members of the governing council and their respective heirs, legal representatives, executors, administrators, permitted 
assigns and successors of the society] of the ONE PART ,  
  
And  
  
UJJIVAN SMALL FINANCE BANK LTD. , a company incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
banking company within the meaning of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (CIN: L65110DL2016PLC302481 ) having its 
registered office at Plot No. 2364/8, Khampur Raya Village, Shadi K ampur, Main Patel Road, New Delhi – 110 008, with its 
head office at Grape Garden, No. 27, 3rd A Cross, 18th Main, Koramangala 6th Block, Bengaluru - 560 095 and operating 
through one of its branches, specified in Schedule (h ereinafter referred to as the “ Bank ”, which expression shall include 
their respective heirs, representatives, successors, executors, administrators and assigns of the OTHER PART .  
  
The Borrower and the Bank are hereinafter collectively referred to as “Parties”  and individually as a “Party”.   
  
WHEREAS    
  
A) At the request of the Borrower as per the Application Form for the purpose detailed in Schedule (the “ Purpose ”), 
and on the basis of the statements and representations made by the Borrower and various documents submitted by 
the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to grant to the Borrower a loan for a maximum amount as detailed in Schedule 
(the “ Loan ”) upon the terms set forth in these presents and other Transaction Documents.  
B) In consideration of the Loan to be lent to the Borrower by the Bank, the Borrower hereby agrees to abide by the 
following terms and conditions as contained herein.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS :   
  
ARTICLE: 1 DEFINITIONS  
  
1.1. The following definitions apply throughout this Agreement unless otherwise stated:  
  
“Additional Interest ” means and includes the interest that is levied by the Bank at the rate specified in Schedule: (a) 
on account of delay in payment of the EMI or PEMII or any other  amounts due and payable by the Borrower to the 
Bank from the Due Date until payment is made to the Bank; or (b) the occurrence of any other Event of Default set 
out in Article 6 of this Agreement, from the date of occurrence of the Event of Default until the remedy of the same, 
and such Additional Interest shall be in addition to the applicable Interest  
“Applicable Law ” means any statute, law, regulation, ordinance, rule, judgement, order, decree, ruling, bye -law, 
approval of any Competent Authority, directive, guideline, policy, requirement or other governmental restriction or 
any similar form of decision of or determi nation by, or any interpretation or administration having the force of law 
of any of the foregoing by any Competent Authority having jurisdiction over the matter in question, whether in effect 
as of the date of Agreement or at any time there after.   
“Application Form ” means, as the context may permit or require, the application letter submitted by the Borrower 
for availing of the Loan, together with all other information, particulars, clarifications, letters and undertakings and 

 
2 
 declarations, if any, furnished by the Borrower or any other persons from time to time in connection with the Loan 
as required by the Bank.  
“Availability Period ” means the period/date as mentioned in the Schedule hereto, during/within which the Borrower 
may be allowed to make the first drawdown from the Loan, which may be extended or varied by the Bank from time 
to time.   
“Business Day ” means a day (other than Public Holiday) on which the Bank and banks are open for business in the 
location from where the Facility is sanctioned.   
“CERSAI ” means the Central Registry of Securitization Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest of India.    
“CIBIL ” means TransUnion CIBIL Limited.   
“Co-Borrower ” means and includes the person who, along with the borrower, shall be jointly and severally liable for 
repayment of all amount under the Loan and his/her/their obligation in relation to the Loan shall be concurrent with 
that of the  e borrower in all resp ects as if he/she/they himself/herself/themselves was/were the borrower and 
accordingly, the Co -Borrower shall regularly and punctually pay to the Bank the instalments as well as other dues 
payable under the Loan himself/herself/themselves.  
“Control ” (and the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") means the possession, 
direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person whether 
through the ownership of voting shar es or by contract or otherwise. “ Disbursement ” means the disbursal of the 
Loan or a part of it.    
“Due Date ” means such date(s) on which any amount including principal, interest and/or charges in respect of the 
Loan is due and/or payable by the Borrower to the Bank in terms of the Transaction Documents and/or performance 
of any other obligation(s) is required t o be complied with by the Borrower under the Transaction Documents.   
“Effective Date ” means the date on which the first Disbursement is availed by the Borrower out of the  total amount 
of the Loan approved.   
“Electronic Clearing System ”, or “ECS ” or “ NACH ”, shall be deemed to include transfer of funds electronically either  
through a message for transfer of funds sent electronically or through an image of an instrument of transfer of funds 
sent electronically or through an electronic file containing the details of the funds transfer sent by electronic media 
or payment through  an electronic cheque or where funds are transferred through various types of plastic cards or 
such other debit clearing service notified b y Reserve Bank of India, participation in which has been consented to in 
writing by the Borrower for facilitating payment of EMIs.   
“Encumbrance ” means (a) any mortgage, charge (whether fixed or floating), pledge, lien, hypothecation,  assignment, 
deed of trust, security interest or other encumbrance of any kind securing, or conferring any priority of payment in 
respect of, any obligation of any Person, including any right granted by a transaction which, in legal terms, is not the 
granti ng of security but which has an economic or financial effect similar to the granting of security under applicable 
law; (b) any voting agreement, interest , option, right of first offer, refusal or transfer restriction in favour of any 
Person; and (c) any adverse claim as to title, possession or use.   
“Enforcement Action ” means any action taken or proposed to be taken by the Bank, against the Borrower, or all or 
any part of the assets over which Security Interest has been created, for the purpose of   
a) enforcing or exercising all or any, of the rights or remedies of the Bank under or in respect of the Security 
Interest created under the Transaction Documents, including without limitation, the initiation of any nonjudicial 
action or any action in any cour t or tribunal or before any administrative agency or government authority or to 
enforce such rights and remedies pursuant to any Applicable Law; and/or   
b) initiation of or participation in any process under the IBC; and/or  
c) adjudicating or seeking a judgment on a claim; and/or   
d) (i) preservation or protection of the Security Interest, including without limitation, the appointment of a 
receiver in respect of the assets of the Borrower, or (ii) enforcement in pursuance to an Event of Default; and/or   
e) Exercise of any other legal remedy under Applicable Law including the Securitisation and Reconstruction of 
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002.   
“Equated Monthly Instalment ” or “ EMI ” means the amount of monthly payments required to be paid to  the Bank in 
order to repay the Loan over the tenure of the Loan and includes both the principal amount of the Loan and interest 
thereon. If the Loan is payable in EMI, such EMI shall be calculated on the basis of monthly rests and the Bank shall 
be entitle d to vary/modify the EMI (including increases in the amount of one or more Instalment(s) in the event of 
changes to the interest rate on the Loan.  
“Event(s) of Default ” shall refer to any event, or circumstance, act, omission or condition, which is or which amounts 
to non -compliance of any of the obligations by the Borrower or any other Obligor under any Transaction Document 
which would if applicable, with the expiry of a ny grace period, the giving of notice, the passage of time, the making 
of any determination under the Transaction Documents or the satisfaction of any applicable condition (or any 
combination of any of the foregoing as may be applicab le), be an Event of Default, including without limitation the 
events or circumstance specified as such in Article 6.   
“External Benchmark Lending Rate ” in relation to rate of Interest means the market determined reference rate 
used by the Bank in conformity with the guidelines of RBI to determine the interest rates on loans/credit facilities, 
which is subject to review by the Bank periodically. The prev ailing External Benchmark Lending Rate is as mentioned 
in the Schedule hereunder.   
 
3 
 “Financial Statements ” means in relation to the Borrower(s), its/their audited consolidated financial statements for 
such period(s) provided to the Bank and/or as required by the Bank from time to time.   
“Financial Year ” means the financial year commencing on 1st April of a calendar year and ending on 31st March in the 
immediately succeeding calendar year.   
“Final Settlement Date ” shall mean the date on which all Outstandings have been irrevocably and unconditionally 
paid and discharged in full to the satisfaction of the Bank and a no -dues certificate is issued by the Bank.  “ Fixed Rate 
of Interest ” means the fixed rate of Interest applicable on the Loan as per the Schedule hereunder, which is subject 
to review by the Bank from time to time.  
“Floating Rate of Interest ” shall mean the sum of the MCLR or External Benchmark Lending Rate plus Spread 
applied by the Bank on the Loan as per the Schedule hereunder, which is subject to review by the Bank from time to 
time.   
“Guarantee ” means the irrevocable and unconditional guarantee (if any) in favour of the Bank issued or to be issued 
by the Guarantor(s) in a form and manner satisfactory to the Bank to secure the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.   
“Guarantor(s) ” means Person(s) (if any) who has/have guaranteed the due performance and  repayment of the Loan 
by the Borrower and have stood as a surety/guarantor for the Loan as detailed in Schedule.   
“Governmental Approvals ” means, in respect of a transaction (including the transaction contemplated in  this 
Agreement) any notice, consent, approval, authorization, waiver, permit, grant, concession, agreement, license, 
certificate, exemption, order or registration of, with or to any Governmental businesses, operations or financial 
condition of the Borrower  or of any other relevant person who is party to any of the Transaction Documents.  
“Governmental Authority ” means any nation or government or any provin ce, state or any other political  subdivision 
thereof; any entity, authority or body exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions 
of or pertaining to government, including any government authority, agency, department, board, commission or 
instrumental ity of India (including, without limitation, any rules, directives, regulations, guidelines and codes of 
conduct of the RBI) or any other jurisdiction, as applicable or any political subdivision thereof or any other applica ble 
jurisdiction; any court, tribunal or arbitrator and any securities exchange or body or authority regulating such 
securities exchange.   
“IBC” shall mean the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 read with the rules and regulations thereunder.   
“INR ” or “Rupee ” or “Rs.” means Indian Rupees being the lawful currency of India.   
"Indebtedness " means any indebtedness whatsoever of the Borrower at any time for or in respect of monies 
borrowed, contracted or raised (whether or not for cash consideration) or liabilities contracted by whatever means 
(including under guarantees, indemnities, accepta nce, credits, deposits, hire purchase and leasing).   
“Interest ” shall mean interest that is chargeable on the Loan and the other Outstandings at the Interest Rate.   
“Interest Rate ” shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in Clause 2.2 and 2.3.   
“Loan ” means the amount of the financial assistance as provided for the purpose as mentioned in the  Sanction Letter 
and any other Outstandings thereunder.   
“Loan Account ” means the account maintained by the Bank which records the balance amount owed by the Borrower 
in reference to the Loan.   
“Material Adverse Effect ” means the effect or consequence of any event or circumstance which is or is  likely to be: 
(a) adverse to the ability of the Borrower, any other Obligor or any other relevant person to perform or comply with 
any of their respective obligations under the Transaction Documents in accordance with their respective terms; or 
(b) prejudi cial to any of the businesses, operations or financial condition of the Borrower, any other Obligor or of any 
other relevant person who is party to any of  the Transaction Documents.   
“Marginal Cost of Funds Based Lending Rate ” or “ MCLR ” means the marginal cost of lending rate as determined 
and published by the Bank from time to time.   
“NEFT ” shall mean the National Electronic Fund Transfer.   
“Obligations ” or “ Outstandings ” shall mean all amounts payable to the Bank (or any of its representatives, agents 
or attorneys or assignees) by the Borrower and any other Obligor pursuant to the terms of the Transaction 
Documents, including without limitation:   
a) the principal of and interest on the Loan, and all other obligations and liabilities of the Borrower, including 
Additional Interest, commission, indemnities, expenses, costs, break costs (if any), and fees incurred under, 
arising out of or in connection wi th any Transaction Document, and any other monies whatsoever stipulated in 
or payable under this Agreement or the other Transaction Documents;  
b) any and all sums advanced by the Bank in order to preserve the Security created or purported to be created 
pursuant to a Transaction Document;   
c) in the event of any proceeding for the collection or enforcement of the Obligations, after an Event of Default 
shall have occurred, the expenses of retaking, holding, preparing for sale or lease, selling or otherwise disposing 
of or realising any Security or of any exercise of the Bank of its right under the Transaction  
Documents, together with legal fees and court costs; and  
d) any amount which becomes due in pursuance to an indemnity obligation, Additional Interest payment obligation 
or any other such similar payment requirements by any Obligor.    
 
4 
 “Obligors ” shall mean the Borrower, Co -Borrower(s), Guarantor(s) and any other Person providing Security and/or 
guarantee or indemnity in favour of the Bank in relation to the Loan.   
“Person ” means any natural person, firm, company, governmental authority, joint venture, partnership,  association 
or other entity (whether or not having separate legal personality).  
“Pre Equated Monthly Instalment Interest ” or “ PEMII ” means Interest at the rate indicated in Schedule on the 
disbursed Loan amount from the relevant date of Disbursement to the date of commencement of EMI.    
“Principal Amount ” means the amount of the Loan originally granted/agreed to be granted by the Bank to the 
Borrower together with any Interest and charges, if any.    
“Prepayment ” means premature repayment (whether in part or in full) as per the terms and conditions  laid down by 
the Bank in that behalf and in force at the time of repayment.    
“Security Cheques” means the cheques drawn by the Borrower in favour of the Bank, for making  payments of the 
Outstandings (including without limitation PEMII(s) and EMI(s)).   
“Purpose ” means the lawful purpose for which the Loan shall be granted/agreed to be granted and shall include 
inter alia, the purpose described in Schedule of this Agreement.    
“RBI” shall mean the Reserve Bank of India.    
“Repayment ” means the repayment of the principal amount of Loan, Interest thereon, commitment and all other 
charges, premium, fees or other dues which are payable under this Agreement to the Bank by the Borrower.   
“RTGS ” shall mean  Real Time Gross Settlement .   
“Sanction Letter ” means the letter issued by the Bank sanctioning the Loan along with the relevant  particulars, 
terms and conditions mentioned in the same.    
“Secured Assets ” shall mean the assets over which Security Interest has been/shall be created under the terms of 
the Transaction Documents to secure the payment/repayment of the Outstandings under the Transaction 
Documents.  
“Security ” shall mean and include any Security Interest provided to the Bank as specified in Article 3 of this 
Agreement or as the Bank may require from time to time.   
“Security Interest ” shall mean a mortgage, charge, encumbrance, pledge, hypothecation, lien, security assignment 
or other security interest securing any obligation of any person or any other lien, agreement or arrangement 
(including any trust retention or escrow arrangements)  having a similar effect.   
“Security Documents ” means the deed of hypothecation, deed of mortgage, memorandum of confirmation of 
deposit of title deeds or any other instrument or document as may be executed from time to time in relation to the 
Security, by any Obligor or any other person.  
“Spread ” shall mean the percentage or such other rate as may be set by the Bank in relation to the Interest Rate and 
communicated to the Borrower by the Bank.    
“Tax” shall mean any goods and services tax, sales tax, customs and excise, value added tax and all other forms of 
direct and indirect tax levied and/or to be levied by a Governmental Authority together with any interest, penalties, 
surcharge, fines relating t hereto, due payable, levied, imposed upon or claimed to be owed in India.   “Transaction 
Documents ” includes all writings and other documents executed or entered into or to be  executed or entered into, 
by the Borrower, any other Obligor or as the case may be, any other person including the Application Form, Sanction 
Letter, this Agreement, the Security Documents and all writings and other documents executed or entered into, or 
to be executed or entered into, by the Obligors or, as the case may be, any other person, in relation, or pertaining, to 
the Loan and each such Transaction Documents as amended from  time to time.  
“Website ” or “ Official Website of the Bank ” means the website of the Bank, presently being www.ujjivansfb.in .  
1.2.  Interpretation:  
Unless the context otherwise requires:  
a) Any expression, which has not been defined in this Agreement but is defined in the General Clauses Act, 1897 
shall have the same meaning thereof.   
b) The reference to masculine gender shall be deemed to include reference to feminine gender and vice versa. The 
meaning of defined terms shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined.   
c) The word “herein”, “hereto”, “hereunder” and the like mean and refer to this Agreement or any other document 
as a whole and not merely to the specific article, section, subsection, paragraph or clause in which the respective 
word appears.   
d) The words including and include shall be deemed to be followed by the words without limitation.   
e) References to Agreements and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent 
amendments and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent such amendments and other modifications 
are not prohibited by the terms of this Agreemen t.  
f) The Application Form and the copies of the documents furnished by the Borrower and/or any other Obligor and 
the information(s) contained therein and the representations made by the Borrower and/or the any other 
Obligor, are inter -alia the basis of this Agr eement. The Borrower declares that the statement(s) made in the 
Application Form are absolutely true and correct and nothing is false and no material particulars have been 
concealed there from. The Borrower declares that the copies of the documents furnish ed by him are true copies 
of their originals and that the originals are genuine documents. It is by these statements/documents and/or 
representations that Bank has agreed to enter into this Agreement.   
 
5 
 g) In the event of any disagreement between the Parties regarding the materiality or reasonableness of any matter 
including any event, fact, information, document, authorization, occurrence, circumstances, proceeding, act, 
omissions, claims, breach, default o r otherwise in relation to this Agreement, the opinion of the Bank shall be 
final and binding on the Borrower and the other Obligors. ARTICLE: 2 LOAN, INTEREST, ETC.  
2.1.  Loan:  
a) Relying upon the statements and representations made by the Borrower in the Application Form, the Bank 
hereby agrees to grant Loan to the Borrower during the Availability Period up to a maximum amount as set out 
in Schedule  for the Purpose.   
b) Unless the Sanction Letter is unconditionally accepted by the Borrower within the time period specified therein, 
the Bank does not undertake any obligation to allow the Borrower to avail the Loan even if sanctioned.  
c) Unless specifically consented to by the Bank, the Loan shall be availed by the Borrower within the Availability 
Period.  
d) The Borrower hereby agrees to utilize the Loan only for the Purpose as described in Schedule.  
e) Once the Application Form submitted by the Borrower is accepted by the Bank, the Borrower shall not be 
entitled to cancel or revoke the Loan.  
f) The Bank reserves an unconditional right to cancel the Loan or any undrawn/unused/unavailed portion of the 
Loan, at any time after sanction or during the currency of the Loan, without notice of the Borrower and for any 
reason(s) whatsoever.  
2.2.  Interest:   
a) The Borrower shall be charged Interest at the Interest Rate specified in Schedule or at such other rate as may 
be notified by the Bank from time to time. During the tenor where Fixed Rate of Interest is applicable, the 
Interest Rate will be fixed and for t he remaining tenor the Interest Rate shall be linked to MCLR or External  
Benchmark Lending Rate or such other Rate duly notified by the Bank in its branches, outlets, offices or Website. 
The term MCLR or External Benchmark Lending Rate is a tenure linked benchmark, arrived based on the 
corresponding tenure of a particular advan ce/facility. The actual lending rate shall be determined by adding the 
components of Spread to MCLR or External Benchmark Lending Rate (of appropriate tenure).   
b) Interest shall be payable by the Borrower, at such periodicity as mentioned in the Schedule, on the last Business 
Day of such period.  
c) The Parties hereby agree that the Interest on the Loan shall accrue in favour of the Bank from the date(s) of the 
transfer/payment advice(s)/cheque(s)/pay order(s)/ by the Bank, irrespective of the time taken for 
transit/collection/realization by the Borro wer.   
d) In default of payment of Interest on the respective Due Date, the same shall be capitalised and added to the 
principal and shall be treated as an advance to the Borrower and the Bank shall be entitled to charge Interest 
at the Interest Rate on the debit ba lance capitalised as aforesaid, in addition to charging Additional Interest 
from the date of default to the date of actual payment.  
e) The Borrower shall reimburse or pay to the Bank such amount as may have been paid or payable by the Bank to 
any Government Authority, on account of any Tax levied on Interest on the Loan. The reimbursement shall  
be made by the Borrower as and when called upon by the Bank.  
f) Interest Reset:  
i) During the tenure of the Loan, the Bank shall have, at its discretion, the right to change/reset/revise the 
Interest Rate, including only the External Benchmark Lending Rate/MCLR (as the case be) or only Spread, 
at such periodicity, as per its policy and/o r the guidelines issued by RBI or applicable laws or regulations, if 
any.   
ii) During tenure of the Loan, the Bank shall have the right to shift the basis of External Benchmark Lending 
Rate to any other permissible reference rate as per the guidelines of RBI or as per its policy.   
iii) In all such situations, the Bank shall intimate the Borrower such changes, through electronic media or print 
media or through display made in the Bank’s outlets/branches/offices. Further, such changes shall be 
effected only prospectively.  
iv) The Borrower is aware and acknowledges that the repayments to be made shall automatically change by 
reason of change in any rates, taxes, charges, imposts, levies and monies whatsoever that are or may be 
levied on the repayments or the transaction contempl ated under the Transaction Documents or are or may 
become payable by the Bank by virtue of the Transaction Documents. Such changes in repayments due to 
change in the rates, taxes, charges, imposts, levies and monies as stated above shall be effected only 
prospectively and the same shall automatically form part of the Loan.  
2.3.  Computation of Interest and Expenses:  
a) The Interest for the relevant Interest Period shall be calculated on the principal amount outstanding on the last 
date of the previous month on the basis of the Interest Rate mentioned in the Schedule and rounded off to the 
next rupee calculated on monthly  rests, and shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 (three hundred and 
sixty five) days.   
b) The Borrower confirms having perused and understood the Bank's method of calculating interest on reducing 
balance rate. The Borrower agrees and accepts that the Interest Rate is reasonable and represents genuine pre -
 
6 
 estimate of the loss expected to be incurred by the Bank in the event of non -payment of any monies by the 
Borrower, and the Borrower hereby acknowledges the genuineness and reasonability of the same.  
c) The Borrower agrees that the determination of Interest by the Bank shall be final and conclusive and shall be 
binding upon the Borrower and a copy of the statement of accounts maintained by the Bank shall be conclusive 
proof and evidence of its liability.  
2.4.  Pre-closure:  
a) In the event of Pre -closure, the Interest on the Loan would be calculated up to the actual date of Pre -closure 
subject to the terms and conditions and pre -closure charges as detailed in the Schedule hereto.   
b) The PEMII, where applicable, payable before the commencement of the EMI shall be equal to the interest levied 
on the principal outstanding which will be computed on previous day of commencement of EMI.   
2.5. Prepayment of Loan: The Bank may in its sole and absolute discretion and subject to the terms and 
conditions and prepayment charges as detailed in the Schedule hereto, or as the Bank may prescribe, 
permit prepayment of the Loan. In the event of the Bank permitting the Borrowe r to prepay the Loan, the 
Borrower undertakes and agrees to execute such documents as the Bank may require and abide by such 
amended/altered repayment schedule as specified by the Bank.   
2.6. Additional Interest:  
a) In the event of default on the part of the Borrower in making payment of the EMI or PEMII or any other amount 
due and payable under the Transaction Documents, as and when the same is/are due to be paid, the Borrower 
shall pay to the Bank Additional Interes t at the rate mentioned in the Schedule. Such Additional Interest shall 
be payable on and from the date of default to and including the date on which such delay/default is rectified. 
The Bank’s right to claim such Additional Interest shall be without preju dice to the Bank’s right to take any other 
action available to it under the terms of this Agreement or at law in respect of such event of default.  
b) On the occurrence of an Event of Default, the Borrower shall, without prejudice to the rights of the Bank to 
declare an Event of Default, pay on the outstanding Loan, Additional Interest, from the date of occurrence of 
the Event of Default till such time t he Event of Default is cured.   
c) Any interest accruing under this Clause shall be immediately payable by the Borrower to the Bank and shall 
constitute the Outstandings till the payment thereof.  
d) The levy of Additional Interest under this Clause shall not prevent the Bank from declaring an Event of Default 
and shall not prejudice the exercise of any rights and remedies available to the Bank upon the occurrence of an 
Event of Default.  
e) The Borrower acknowledges and agrees that the Additional Interest is reasonable and represents the genuine 
pre-estimates of the loss incurred by the Bank in the event of non -payment by the Borrower. Further, the 
Borrower confirms that the Loan provided und er this Agreement is for a commercial transaction and the 
Borrower hereby waives any defence available under usury or other Applicable Laws relating to the charging of 
interest.  
2.7.  Conditions precedent for Disbursement of Loan:  
a) The obligation of the Bank to make any Disbursement under this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfilment 
of the following conditions:  
i) The Borrower shall have furnished certified true copies of the relevant incorporation and constitutional 
documents (as applicable) and resolutions, including any certifications in relation to the same as may be 
required by the Bank from time to time, and t he Borrower shall have carried out any amendments thereto 
for availing the Loan, if so required by the Bank.  
ii) The Borrower shall have furnished all authorization documents as required by the Bank.  
iii) The Borrower shall have obtained all the requisite approvals/permissions/NOCs from Governmental 
Authorities required for implementation of the purpose for which the Loan is availed.   
iv) If the Loan is to be secured by Guarantee, the Borrower shall cause the Guarantor(s) to execute and hand 
over to the Bank an irrevocable and unconditional Guarantee in favour of the Bank in such sum as stipulated 
by the Bank.  
v) The Borrower satisfying the Bank’s KYC requirements.  
vi) Execution of this Agreement and all other relevant Transaction Documents as required by the Bank, 
including all Security Documents, and creation of a valid Security Interest in favour of the Bank (the 
Security Interest to be got registered with the Registr ar of Companies and CERSAI, as may be applicable, 
within the prescribed period).  
vii) Furnishing of any documents/ information and fulfilment of any condition, as may be required by the Bank.  
b) In addition to the conditions precedent as specified in this Clause, the Borrower shall comply with such other 
conditions as specified in the Schedule hereunder, to the extent applicable.  
2.8.  Disbursement:  
a) The Borrower shall be permitted to drawdown from the Loan subject to the Borrower handing over to the Bank 
such documents, as may be applicable to the Loan and required by the Bank. The Loan may be disbursed either 
in a single tranche or in multiple tranch es.   
 
7 
 b) The obligation of the Bank to make any disbursement/permitting to drawdown shall be subject to the Borrower 
furnishing evidence to the complete satisfaction of the Bank about the proposed utilization of the proceeds. 
The disbursement shall also be subject to fulfilment of conditions precedent and confirmation on all 
representations continuing to be true and correct.   
c) All disbursements shall be made by the Bank either to:   
i)  the Borrower’s account; or  ii)  a third party’s account if so required by the Borrower, By 
way of transfer by RTGS/ NEFT.  
The Borrower hereby agrees and confirms that the date of such transfer by RTGS/ NEFT would be deemed to 
be the date of disbursement to the Borrower irrespective of the date on which the Disbursement may have 
been received by the Borrower or the relevant th ird party.   
d) The right of the Borrower to make drawals under the Loan shall cease on the expiry of the Availability Period, 
unless permitted by the Bank.   
e) The transaction expenses incurred by the Bank for the purpose of granting the Loan shall be adjusted by the 
Bank from the amount of the relevant Disbursement under the Loan.  
f) At the time of each Disbursement the Borrower undertakes and agrees to hand over to the Bank such security 
Cheques as stipulated by the Bank.   
 i)    
The Security Cheques handed over to the Bank shall be deemed to be an unconditional and irrevocable authority 
given by the Borrower to the Bank. The dishonour of the Security Cheques on first presentation shall constitute 
an Event of Default.   
g) The Borrower agrees that the decision of the Bank with regard to the disbursal of the Loan shall be final, 
conclusive and binding on the Borrower.   
2.9.  Amortization of Loan:  
a) The Borrower will amortize the Loan in Equated Monthly Instalments as stipulated in Schedule, subject to any 
other changes in such amortization as communicated later in writing by the Bank to the Borrower. The Due Date 
of payment of the first EMI shall be the corresponding day of the following month to the Due Date specified in 
Schedule.   
b) The repayment of the Obligations by the Borrower to the Bank under the Transaction Documents shall be 
payable on the respective Due Dates in any of the following modes: i) Electronic Clearing System as notified by 
RBI; ii) Automated Clearing House, details whereof are mentioned in Schedule  for a  direct debit from the 
Borrower’s account with the Bank.  
Provided however, that:  
 i)  in case of overdue payment or in case of technical issues, the Bank may allow the repayment of the  
Loan by way of cash payment; ii) in case of existence of cash credit/overdraft account, the Bank may allow 
the repayment of the Loan from secondary current account only;  
iii) If business of the Borrower is carried out through a savings account and no current account or cash 
credit/overdraft account exists, the Bank may allow the repayment of the Loan from the savings account.  
c) Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove the Bank shall have the right to, at any time and from time to 
time, review and/or reschedule the repayment terms of the Loan or of the outstanding amount thereof in such 
manner as the Bank may at its sole dis cretion decide. In such an event the Borrower shall follow the repayment 
Schedule as revised by the Bank for the amount outstanding at such time.   
d) The Borrower shall pay the Outstandings without any demur, protest or default and without claiming any set -
off or counterclaim on the respective Due Dates. No notice, reminder or intimation shall be given to the 
Borrower regarding his obligation and respon sibility to ensure prompt and regular payment of the 
Outstandings on the respective Due Dates.  
e) Irrespective of the mode of payment / repayment selected by the Borrower in the Application Form, the Bank 
may, in its sole discretion, require the Borrower to adopt or switch to any alternate mode of payment and the 
Borrower shall comply with such request , without demur or delay.   
2.10.  Joint and Several Liability: Notwithstanding anything herein stated, the liability of the Borrower and the Obligors 
under the Transaction Documents to repay the Outstandings and to observe the terms and conditions of the 
Transaction Documents, shall be joint and several.   
ARTICLE: 3 SECURITY  
3.1. The Borrower agrees to create Security Interest in such form and manner detailed in Schedule and any additional 
security as may be required by the Bank from time to time to secure the repayment of the Outstandings. In the event 
Security furnished by the Bo rrower is found to be insufficient/incorrect in value, the Borrower shall be directed to 
furnish additional security as may be required by the Bank and the Bank may recall/ accelerate the repayment of the 
Outstandings with immediate effect.   
3.2. The Borrower shall do, perform and execute such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be necessary either to perfect 
the Security Interest provided for or to carry out the intent of this Agreement.  
3.3. All Security furnished by the Borrower to the Bank shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other Security, 
which the Bank may at any time hold in respect of the Outstandings and shall remain continuing security to the Bank 
and the same shall b e binding upon the Borrower. The Borrower shall not be discharged/released on account of any 
 
8 
 intermediate payment or settlement of accounts by the Borrower till the Final Settlement Date and the Bank gives 
release/discharge in respect of the Security in writing to the Borrower.   
3.4. The Borrower agrees that the Bank shall have an exclusive charge over the Security created and that the Borrower shall 
not create any other Encumbrance on the Secured Assets in favour of any other person or body, except with the prior 
written consent of th e Bank.   
3.5. The Borrower agrees that the Security Interest agreed to be created under this Agreement and the liability of the 
Borrower shall not be affected, impaired or discharged by insolvency, liquidation, winding -up, merger, 
amalgamation, reconstruction, dissoluti on, nationalization, takeover of the management of the Borrower or any 
insolvency process being initiated under the IBC.   
ARTICLE: 4 COVENANTS  
The Borrower hereby expressly covenants as follows:  
4.1. The Loan shall be governed by the terms herein contained as well as those embodied in the other Transaction 
Documents and the Borrower hereby undertakes to comply with and adhere to all terms thereof and the provisions 
of the Applicable Laws.  
4.2. ... The Obligors shall execute all necessary documents, including but not limited to executing necessary instruments, 
undertakings, deeds, documents, writings, and other documents and make necessary filings with the relevant 
authorities to create and perfect t he Security over the Secured Assets in favor of the Bank.  
4.3.  The Loan and each portion of the Loan shall be utilised only for the Purpose, and no portion of the Loan shall be 
used for any illegal and/or antisocial and/or speculative purposes including but not limited to participation in stock 
markets/IPOs and/or pur chase/investment in capital market. No portion of the Loan proceeds shall be used for business of 
chit fund or Nidhi Company or agricultural/plantation/real estate business, or construction of farm houses or trading in 
Transferable Development Rights  (TDRs).  
4.4. ... The Borrower shall submit to the Bank a certification, in such form, mode and manner stipulated by the Bank, 
regarding end use of the Loan. In addition to this, the Bank may, at its discretion, get the records of the Borrower 
verified through the auditor(s ) of Borrower or any auditor of the Bank’s choice to confirm end use of the Loan. The 
Bank shall have the right to take appropriate measures (including criminal action) against Borrower if such 
certification is found to be wrong.  
4.5. ... The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information, statements, particulars and estimates and reports as the 
Bank may require from time to time as to the compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  
4.6. ... The Borrower shall notify the Bank forthwith upon change in employment, business or profession of the Borrower. 
In the event the Borrower is self -employed, the Borrower hereby undertakes to keep the Bank informed about the 
financials of its business on a r egular basis and also provide the Bank such information and/ or documents as may be 
required by the Bank from time to time;  
4.7. ... The Borrower shall promptly replace the mandates, agreements and/or other documents executed for 
payment/repayment of the Outstandings and issue fresh mandates, agreements and/or other documents in lieu 
thereof to the satisfaction of the Bank in the event of any variation in the Due Date(s) or amount under the Loan or 
if the Bank is facing any difficulty / inconvenience / impediment for any reason whatsoever in issuing debit 
instructions or if required at any time by the Bank at its sole discretion .  
4.8. ... The Borrower shall comply with the reporting requirements, as applicable, (including semi -annual compliance 
certificates, annual and semi -annual Financial Statements, notices of default, notices of material litigation, and such 
other information and such a ccess to the Borrower’s books, records, properties etc., as the Bank may reasonably 
require.  
4.9. ... The Borrower shall submit to the Bank his/her/its financial statements as and when required by the Bank.  
4.10.  .. The Borrower shall maintain the Secured Assets in good order and condition and all necessary repairs, additions and 
improvements thereto will be made during the currency of the Loan and the Borrower shall ensure that the value of 
the Secured Assets does no t diminish.   
4.11.  .. The Borrower shall duly and punctually comply with all the terms and conditions of holding the Secured Assets and 
all the rules, regulations, bye -laws, etc., of the concerned co -operative society, association, company or any other 
competent authority, and pay such maintenance and other charges for the upkeep of the Secured Assets as also any 
other dues, etc., as may be payable in respect of the Secured Assets and/or of the use thereof.   
4.12.  .. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any loss or damage to Secured Assets due to any act of God or 
damage or other risks against which the Secured Assets may not have been insured.  
4.13.  .. The Borrower shall respectively comply in all respects with Applicable Laws to which it may be subject. The Borrower 
shall file all tax returns and pay all duties and all other Taxes, levies and statutory dues promptly when due and 
payable and, to the exte nt any taxes are not due, shall have established reserves that are adequate for the payment 
of those taxes and statutory dues. The Bank shall not be responsible for the compliance of Tax obligations of the 
Borrower.  
4.14.  .. The Borrower shall allow any person authorized by the Bank to have free access to the Secured Assets and/or the 
business Unit of the Borrower for the purpose of inspection.   
4.15.  .. The Borrower shall not execute any document such as power of attorney or any other similar or other deed, in favour 
of any person to deal with the property of the Borrower in any manner.  
 
9 
 4.16.  .. If the Bank has stipulates so, the Borrower shall pay commitment charges at the rate specified in Schedule on the 
unutilised portion of the Loan.  
4.17.  .. The Borrower shall accept as conclusive proof of correctness of any sum claimed as due by the Borrower as per the 
statement of account made out by the Bank and signed by any duly authorised officer of the Bank, without 
production of any document/voucher/pa per or as per statement generated by any mechanical, electronic device, etc.  
4.18.  The Borrower agrees and authorises the Bank to debit their account without notice, towards principal, Interest and/or 
other charges, expenses etc., due to the Bank under this Agreement to the extent of balance available in the said 
account and the said deb it made as per the authority specifically given hereby and credit of such amount to the Loan 
Account, shall be treated as an acknowledgement by payment for the purpose of limitation. The Borrower shall 
maintain adequate books of records, correctly re flecting its financial position and operations, apart from submitting 
to the Bank at regular intervals such statements as may be prescribed by the Bank in terms of the instructions of RBI 
or as per the policy of the Bank.  
4.19.  The Borrower is aware and acknowledges that, if the Loan or the Borrower is eligible for any subsidy or incentive at 
the instance of any State or Central Government or Authority, such subsidy/incentive granted is not gratuitous, and the 
such subsidy/incent ive shall be available to the Borrower only if he/she/it is compliant of the underlying 
Rules/Regulations/Provisions governing such subsidy/incentive, apart from meeting the conditions and obligations 
envisaged thereunder. Further, the Borrower is aw are and acknowledges that the Bank shall reckon such subsidy/incentive 
only in accordance with the underlying Rules/Regulations/Provisions governing such subsidy/incentive, and the Bank shall 
not undertake any obligation or liability with regard to such su bsidy/incentive other than those are covered under the 
underlying Rules/Regulations/Provisions governing such subsidy/incentive. The Borrower is also aware that he/she/it shall 
not be eligible for subsidy, unless conduct of the Loan Account is satisfactory  in the opinion of the Bank/the Authority 
which grants the subsidy. The Borrower also agrees to refund the subsidy/incentive, if any, received by him/her/it forthwith 
upon demand by the Bank, either to the Bank or to any Authority stipulated by the Bank. A ny such amount not refunded 
shall automatically form part of the Outstandings...  
4.20.  The Borrower agrees that the Bank shall have an irrevocable and overriding lien on any monies which come into the 
possession of the Bank and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates etc., in any manner whatsoever, and the Bank shall be 
entitled to set -off and  appropriate such monies/amounts towards the Outstandings or any other amounts that may 
be due from the Borrower (as a legal entity) to the Bank in any manner it may deem appropriate, in its sole and 
absolute discretion.   
4.21.  .. The Borrower agrees that if, in the opinion of the Bank, it is difficult for the Borrower to repay the Outstandings the 
Bank shall have the right to re -phase the schedule of Disbursements and/or repayment. Such revised schedule of 
Disbursement and/or repay ment as decided by the Bank and informed to Borrower shall be binding on Borrower and 
shall be deemed to have been incorporated in this Agreement and the same shall not in any way absolve the Borrower 
or any other Obligor from their liability unde r this Agreement. The Borrower agrees and confirms that the said act 
of re -phasing shall be without prejudice to the rights of the Bank to demand and recover the entire Outstandings at 
any time.  
4.22.  .. The Borrower agrees that the payment, acknowledgement or undertaking made or given by them or any other 
Obligor shall be binding on all of them jointly or severally and each of them constitute the duly authorised agent and 
the payment (by any mode whatsoev er) or acknowledgement or undertaking so made or given by any of them shall 
be binding on them jointly and severally, and be treated as part payment/acknowledgement for the purpose of 
limitation.  
4.23.  .. The Borrower shall promptly give written notice to the Bank of:  
a) any event likely to have substantial effect on the business or profit of the Borrower;  
b) any material circumstances affecting the ability of the Borrower to repay the Loan in the manner stipulated 
hereunder;   
c) any dispute which might arise between the Borrower and any Person or any governmental body or authority 
relating to or concerning the Secured Assets;   
d) any distress or execution being levied against the Secured Assets;   
e) any notice received by the Borrower or any of the other Obligors pursuant to the provisions of the IBC or the 
filing of an application for initiation of insolvency process under the IBC in relation to an Obligor, which 
intimation shall in no event be later  than 1 (one) day from the date of gaining knowledge thereof. The Borrower 
further undertakes to immediately forward a copy of any notice and any other communication received by it or 
any of the other Obligors in this regard.  
4.24. .. The Borrower agrees that the Loan is transferable to any of the branches of the Bank or other institution.  
4.25. .. The Borrower further covenants with the Bank that unless the Bank otherwise previously approves in writing, the 
Borrower shall not:  
a) enter into any agreement or arrangement with any Person, institution or local or Government body (i) for the 
use, occupation or disposal of the immoveable properties forming part of the Security or any part thereof (ii) in 
respect of any of the Borrower’s assets such that the same may have a Material Adverse Effect on the  
Loan;  
b) stand as surety for anybody or guarantee the repayment of any loan or the purchase price of any asset;  
c) borrow from any Person or charge any property till the Final Settlement Date;  
 
10 
 d) Take any action which makes the borrowing of the Loan illegal.  
4.26.  .. Insurance:   
a) Insurance for Secured Assets:  
The Borrower shall, until the full repayment of the Outstandings, fully insure, and keep the Secured Assets and 
all other properties over which the Security is created in favour of the Bank so insured against all comprehensive 
risks and assign the benefits  of such policy/ies with the name of the Bank appropriately endorsed and recorded 
as ‘Assignee’ or ‘Loss Payee’ in such insurance policy/ies, for a value as required by the Bank and produce 
evidence thereof to the Bank from time to time and wherever called  upon to do so. The Borrower shall, until 
the full repayment of the Outstandings ensure that the said insurance policy is valid, subsisting and operative. 
The entire premium of the insurance policy will be borne by the Borrower. If the Borrower fails to pa y the 
insurance premium, the Bank shall have the right to deduct the insurance premium by netting -off the Loan at 
the time of disbursement.  
b) Life Insurance   
If specifically requested by the Borrower, the Bank would facilitate the Borrower, through the insurer identified 
by the Bank, to obtain a life insurance cover, in the event the Borrower is: i) an individual, in the name of the 
Borrower; ii) a proprietorship, in the name of the proprietor;  
iii) a partnership firm, the partner having the larger share (and in case a partnership with partners having equal 
share, any one of the partners);  
iv) a trust, in the name of the managing trustee;  
v) a society, in the name of the key office bearer; vi) A private limited company or LLP, the main 
promoter/director/partner having the largest shareholding (and in case a company or LLP with 
promoter/director/partner having equal shareholding, the key operating promoter/director/partner).  
Such life insurance coverage, if opted by the Borrower in the above manner voluntarily, shall be for a term equal 
to the tenure of the Loan rounded off to the next full year.  
The Borrower is aware and acknowledges that such life insurance coverage shall be available only if the 
Borrower specifically opts therefor and the applicable insurance premium should be paid by the Borrower, and 
that the said policy/ies shall be governed by the guidelines of the concerned insurer, including in the matter of 
settlement of claim.  
c) Insurance for business unit being financed:  The Borrower shall, if so required by the Bank, insure the business 
unit in such sum and manner as stipulated by the Bank.   
d) Nothing contained herein shall cast an obligation on the Bank to insure the above mentioned assets or to renew 
the underlying policy/ies. The Borrower shall take and cause to be taken all steps to get the same insured and 
to get such policy/ies renewed fro m time to time. The Bank reserves the right (but not bound) to pay the 
premium on behalf of the Borrower in case of Borrower’s failure and get such amounts reimbursed by the 
Borrower.   
e) The Bank shall have the right to receive and adjust any payment that it may receive in connection with any 
insurance policy / policies against the Loan and alter the repayment schedule in any manner as it may deem fit 
notwithstanding anything to the contra ry contained in this Agreement or any other document or paper.   
4.27. .. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank any other information that the Bank may require in pursuance to the 
requirement under the IBC.   
4.28. .. The Borrower shall submit a list of all its operational creditors.   
4.29. .. The Borrower shall also submit a copy of all its financial indebtedness related filings made with the information 
utilities pursuant to the provisions of the IBC, as and when applicable.   
4.30. .. The Borrower shall co -operate, enter into necessary documents and take all necessary actions that may be required 
by the Bank in pursuance to adequate compliance under the IBC.   
4.31. .. In addition to the covenants as specified in this Clause, the Borrower shall comply with such other covenants as 
specified in the Schedule hereunder, to the extent applicable.  ARTICLE: 5  
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  
5.1.  The Borrower represents, warrants and undertakes to the Bank as under:  
a) The Borrower has the competence and power to execute the Transaction Documents and has taken the 
necessary approvals/ authorisations in relation to the execution of the Transaction Documents, which 
approvals/ authorisations will remain valid and subsisting  during the tenure of the Loan.   
b) The Borrower has the power to own its assets and carry on the Business as it is being conducted.  
c) The Borrower has absolute clear and marketable title over the Secured Assets, has exercised due care and 
caution (including, where necessary, obtaining of advice of tax / legal / accounting / financial / other 
professionals) and that the Secured Assets are  absolutely unencumbered and free from any liability whatsoever.   
d) All approvals required from Governmental Authority or any other persons for or in connection with the 
execution, validity and performance of the Transaction Documents by the Obligors, including availing of the 
Loan and for the creation of the Security by t he Obligors have been obtained and are in full force and effect and 
there is no breach of any Applicable Law by the Obligors.  
e) The Borrower shall not undertake any amendment to its constitutional documents without the prior written 
permission of the Bank.  
 
11 
 f) No Event of Default or Material Adverse Change has occurred or is subsisting.  
g) The execution and performance by the Obligors of the Transaction Documents to which they are a party are not 
in conflict with or result in any violation or breach of or default under any provision of any Applicable Law or its 
constitutional documents.  
h) None of the Obligors is in breach of any material agreement to which it is a party including without limitation 
any agreement entered into with a bank/financial institution/lender. The term material agreement being one 
which could, in the opinion of the Ba nk, prejudice any of the rights of the Bank under any Transaction 
Documents.  
i) The Borrower confirms that there are no proceedings (in any form) or investigation pending or threatened, by 
or against the Borrower which might have a Material Adverse Effect.  
j) No suit, litigation, proceeding, investigation, corporate action, creditor’s process etc. by an authority or any 
other person is ongoing or pending or threatened against the Borrower or in respect of his/her/its assets.  
k) The Borrower is not served with any notice for breach or infringement of any law.  Except to the extent disclosed 
to the Bank, no civil or criminal (including, but not limited to, any insolvency or bankruptcy) proceedings is/are 
initiated or pending or thr eatened against the Borrower or his/her/its assets, including in relation to the 
Security.  
l) The Borrower and/or its key persons is/are not a defaulter/wilful defaulter or facing any proceedings for 
declaring as defaulter/wilful defaulter and if any lender initiates or threatens any action for declaring him/her 
as wilful defaulter the Bank shall h ave the right to take appropriate proceedings against him/her/it. In the event 
a director/partner/member/trustee of the Borrower is identified as wilful defaulter, the Borrower shall take 
expeditious and effective steps for removal of such person from the Borrower.  
m) No event, circumstance or situation has occurred, which might affect the Borrower or the Bank’s right towards 
the Secured Assets or hinder the enforcement of the Security and no Material Adverse Effect has occurred.  
n) Except to the extent disclosed to the Bank in writing the Borrower and its key person(s) is/are not a Director or 
relative of a Director or Senior Official of the Bank or any other bank and no Director or Employee of the Bank 
or any other bank or their rel ative have any substantial interest in the activities carried out by the Borrower.  
o) The Borrower shall not, during subsistence of the Loan, induct or appoint in his/her/its business any person who 
is a Director or Employee of the Bank or their relative.  
p) The Security is not included in or affected by any of the schemes of Central / State Government or of the 
improvement trust or any other public body or local authority or by any alignment, widening or construction of 
road under any scheme of the Central / State Government or of any Corporation, Municipal Committee, Gram 
Panchayat etc.   
q) The Borrower has paid and will pay when due, all public demands such as taxes and all the other revenues 
payable to the Government of India or to the government of any state or to any local authority and that at 
present there are no arrears of such taxes a nd revenues due and outstanding.  r)     
i) To the extent applicable, the availing of the Loan and exercise of rights and performance of obligations 
under this Agreement or any other Transaction Document shall constitute, private and commercial acts 
done and performed for private and commercial purp oses.   
ii) The Borrower is not / shall not be entitled to and shall not claim immunity for itself or its assets and 
properties from suit, execution, attachment or other legal process in any proceedings in relation to this 
Agreement and other Transaction Documents.   
(i)  No proceedings under the IBC have been initiated in relation to the Borrower and no notice under IBC has 
been received by the Borrower.  
5.2. In addition to the representations and warranties as specified in Clause 5.1 above, the Borrower provides such other 
representations and warranties as specified in the Schedule hereunder, to the extent applicable.  
5.3. The Borrower confirms that the representations and warranties contained herein shall be deemed to be repeated by 
the Borrower on and as of each day from the date of this Agreement until all Outstandings have been paid in full, as 
if made with reference to the facts and circumstances existing on such day. ARTICLE: 6  
EVENTS OF DEFAULT   
6.1. Payment of Dues:  If any payment under the Transaction Document (including but not limited to PEMII & EMI) is not 
paid on the relevant Due Date thereof or where any PDC/ECS is not renewed before the relevant Due Date or  
if any payment made by the Borrower to the Bank falls short of the payment required to be made by the Borrower 
with respect to the amount due from the Borrower to the Bank.   
6.2. Performance of Covenants:  (a) If the Borrower or any other Obligor fails to perform and/or observe any covenant 
and/or condition and/or warranties to be performed or observed by it under any Transaction Document and (b) Non -
satisfaction of a Conditions Precedent or any other condi tions that may be prescribed under the Transaction 
Documents.  
6.3. Supply of Misleading Information:  If any information given by the Borrower and/or any other Obligor in the 
Application Form or Transaction Document or any other document or otherwise is found to be misleading or 
incorrect.   
6.4. Failure to furnish information/documents:  If the Borrower and/or any other Obligor fail to furnish any information or 
documents as required by the Bank.  
 
12 
 6.5. Failure to inform event of Default:  If the Borrower or any other Obligor fails to inform the Bank of the happening of 
any Event of Default or any event which after the notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default.  
6.6. Non -delivery of cheques:  If the Borrower fails to deliver PDC/ECS in accordance with the terms of the Transaction 
Documents or as and when demanded by the Bank.   
6.7. Cross Default:  If the Borrower and/or any other Obligor makes a default in the performance of any of the terms and 
conditions of any other agreement or arrangement with the Bank or its group companies or subsidiaries or affiliates 
or any other bank or any non -banking fi nancial company/ housing finance company or any other lender/creditors.   
6.8. Proceedings or compromise with creditors:  (a) If any litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings of or before 
any court, arbitral body or agency is started or threatened against the Borrower or if the Borrower makes any 
compromise with its creditors or if a winding -up petition against th e Borrower has been filed (as applicable) and the 
same is not vacated, stayed or abated within 30 (Thirty) days from the date of first hearing or admittance, whichever 
is early, (b) If any litigation or proceedings (including arbitration or conciliation pr oceedings) is initiated against or 
orders or decrees are passed against or notice are received by an Obligor, and/or (c) Any litigation, suit, proceeding 
etc. is initiated, filed, applied or threatened against an Obligor, including without limitation by an y lender, bank or 
financial institution, and including without limitation for the winding -up, liquidation and/or insolvency of an Obligor 
or the appointment of a judicial manager or interim or other resolution professional of any of the Obligors and/or 
initiation, filing, application or threat of analogous proceeding against any of the Obligors in any jurisdiction.  
6.9. Default in creation of Security or Security in jeopardy:  (a) Default by the Borrower and/or other Obligor, as may be 
applicable, in creation of Security Interest to the satisfaction of the Bank within the period stipulated in this 
Agreement/Sanction Letter or such other period as may be extended by the Bank or if in the opinion of the Bank, a 
secured asset is in jeopardy, under threat or ceases to have effect, (b) If any Security or Guarantee to the Loan or 
underlying the Loan becomes unenforceable or infructuous or is challenged by any person, and/or (c) If the Obligors 
do any act which may affect the Security or the value of such Security.  
6.10.  Any other event/circumstances:  If the Borrower and/or any other Obligor commits any act or omission and/or there 
exists any other event or circumstance(s) which, in the sole opinion of the Bank, prejudices or endangers the interest 
of the Bank or any Security Interest created in favor of the Bank.  
6.11.  Such other events as specified in the Schedule hereunder and/or such other events as the Bank may specify from time 
to time.  
ARTICLE: 7 WAIVER  
No delay in exercising or omitting to exercise any right, power or remedy accruing to the Bank shall impair any right, power,  
remedy of the Bank nor shall be construed to be a waiver thereof or any acquiescence of such default. No action or inaction 
of the  Bank in respect of any default or acquiescence of any default affect or impair any right, power or remedy of the Bank 
in respect of any other default. The rights and remedies of the Bank provided herein and in the Transaction Documents are 
cumulative and in addition to any rights and remedies provided by law which the Bank shall be entitled, but without being 
bound, to exercise at its absolute discretion.  
ARTICLE: 8 INSPECTION  
The Borrower shall permit the Bank or persons authorized by the Bank to inspect and take copies of all books of accounts 
and other records maintained by the Borrower and/or by the Bank in respect of the Loan.   
ARTICLE: 9 ASSIGNMENT  
9.1  The Bank shall be entitled to assign or transfer the rights and/or obligations under this Agreement to any person 
of the Bank’s choice in whole or in part and in such manner and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may decide. Any 
such assignment or tr ansfer shall conclusively bind the Borrower and all other persons. However, the Borrower shall not be 
entitled to transfer or assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement.   
9.2 The Borrower hereby expressly and unconditionally agree that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in 
any of the Transaction Documents, during the subsistence of the Loan, the Bank shall have the liberty to shift, at its 
discretion, without no tice to the Borrower, from time to time a part or portion of the outstanding in the limit/s of 
the Loan (hereinafter referred to as the “ Participation ”) to one or more scheduled commercial banks (hereinafter 
referred to as the “ Participating Bank/s ”) and the Participation shall be governed by the terms of the Uniform Code 
Governing Inter Bank Participations, 1988 which the Borrower has read and understood, and all amendments 
thereto, from time to time. The Participation shall not affect the rights and o bligations, inter se, the Borrower and 
the Bank in respect of the Loan, in any manner whatsoever. Such Participation shall be available to the Bank, for and 
in respect of all additional/ further limits under the Loan, without any confirmation/consent of or  any reference to 
the Borrower in that behalf. The Borrower shall not have and shall not claim any privity of contract with any such 
Participating Banks under the Participation and the Bank shall and shall continue to represent the Participating Banks 
in all respects and for all matters arising out of/relating to the Participation. ARTICLE: 10  
APPROPRIATION OF PAYMENTS  
10.1  The Borrower agrees and undertakes that notwithstanding anything contained herein or in any other documents or 
instructions in writing by the Borrower, the repayment made by the Borrower or amount 
realised/received/recovered by the Bank towards repayment o f the Loan shall be appropriated at the absolute 
discretion of the Bank as under:  
a) Firstly towards costs, charges, expenses, incidental charges and other moneys that may have been expended by 
the Bank in connection with the recovery;  
b) Secondly towards Additional Interest;  
 
13 
 c) Thereafter towards prepayment charges and fees;  
d) Thereafter towards PEMII/EMI/interest over the Loan in case the Loan is a roll over loan or continuing in nature;  
e) Thereafter towards principal amount of the Loan.  
10.2  Notwithstanding the above, any amount paid to the Bank may be appropriated by the Bank towards the amounts due 
from the Borrower (including Outstandings), in the manner that the Bank deems fit, at its absolute discretion. 
ARTICLE: 11  
COST AND EXPENSES  
The Borrower undertakes to pay, forthwith on demand to the Bank all costs and expenses (including charges as mentioned 
in Schedule, all stamp duties, legislation fees or other taxes/levies, in respect of the Loan and/or the Transaction Document s 
and/or any  penalty/ies that may be imposed, legal costs spent on legal counsel/s etc.) on a full indemnity basis incurred 
and/or to be incurred by the Bank or its group company, affiliates, subsidiaries etc. or any other any person on behalf of th e 
Bank in relation to the Loan and the Transaction Documents. If the Borrower fails to pay the same, the Bank will make such 
payments, in which event such amounts paid by the Bank will form part of the principal amount of the Loan disbursed.   
ARTICLE: 12 NOTICE  
12.1.  Any notice or request or communication to be given or made by a party to the other shall be in writing and shall be 
sent to the concerned party(s) at the address mentioned/specified in Schedule hereto.   
12.2.  That the notice/request/communication sent by the Borrower shall be vide pre -paid registered AD post/speed post 
and sent to both the above mentioned addresses and shall be deemed to have been received by the Bank, when it 
shall have actually been received by the Bank at both the addresses.   
12.3.  That the notice/request/communication sent by the Bank may be sent in any manner that the Bank may so deem fit 
and proper (in its sole and absolute discretion) and the same shall be deemed to have been received by the  
Borrower: -   
a) if given by post on the expiration of 2 (two) days after the same shall have been delivered to the post Office and 
for proving the service it shall be sufficient to show that the envelope containing the notice was properly 
addressed and posted,   
b) And if delivered personally, when left at the address of the Borrower as aforesaid, and a certificate by an Officer 
of the Bank who sent such notice or communication that the same was so given or made shall be final and 
conclusive.    
  
  
ARTICLE: 13 INDEMNIFICATION  
The Borrower undertakes to indemnify and keep the Bank, its officers, employees, authorized representatives, directors 
and Affiliates (each, an " Indemnified Party ") fully indemnified and harmless from and against all the consequences of 
breach of any of the terms, conditions, statements, undertakings, representations and warranties of the Borrower, whether 
in this Agreement or in any other document, as also of any of its representations or warranties not being found to be true 
at any point of time, including an y actions, suits, claims, proceedings, damages, liabilities, losses, expenses or costs 
(hereinafter referred to as " Claims ") faced, suffered or incurred by any Indemnified Party.  ARTICLE: 14  
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION  
14.1  During subsistence of Borrower’s liability under the Loan, the Bank shall have unfettered rights to access the 
repository of Credit Information Companies any number of times to ascertain/check the financial discipline and/or 
credit score of the Borrower, a nd insist the Borrower to take remedial measures to perfect the lacunae, if any, 
observed.   
14.2  The Borrower hereby agrees and authorizes the Bank to disclose, from time to time, any information and data relating 
to the Borrower (including personal sensitive data or information and any information that requires a consent under 
the Information Technol ogy Act, 2000/2008, the Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and 
Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011 and/or any other statute) and/or the Loan and/or 
the defaults (if any), in or outside India, to: (a) a ny group entity of the Bank or any of their employees, agents, 
representatives etc.; (b) third parties engaged by the Bank or any of its group entities for purposes such as marketing 
of services and products; (c) any rating agency, insurer or insurance bro ker of, or direct or indirect provider of credit 
protection to the Bank or any group entity; (d) any of the service providers or professional advisers of a group entity 
with the rights to further share it with their sub -contractors in any jurisdiction; (e)  any credit bureau, 
database/databanks, corporate, banks, financial institutions etc.; (f) any authority or other entity as required by law 
or any authority; (g) any other person to (or through) whom the Bank assigns or transfers or novates (or may 
potenti ally assign or transfer or novate) all or any of its rights and obligations under the Transaction 
Documents/Loan; (h) Credit Information Companies; (i) Reserve Bank of India; (j) Income Tax authorities, Credit 
Rating Agencies (for the purpose of credit ref erence checks) or any other Government or any other regulatory 
Authorities/Bodies/ Departments/ as and when so demanded; and/or (k) any court or judicial, statutory or regulatory 
authority/tribunal/arbitrary pursuant to an order/direction to this effect, a s and when required.  The Borrower agrees 
and acknowledges that the above persons may use and process the information and data disclosed by the Bank in 
the manner as deemed fit by them.  
14.3  The Borrower authorizes the Bank, without any notice to the Borrower, to share and disclose the information relating 
to the Loan to any credit bureau, financial institution or any other authority for proper verification and other 
administrative services.  
 
14 
 14.4  The Borrower hereby agrees as a pre -condition of the Loan given to the Borrower by the Bank that in case the Borrower 
commits default in the payment/repayment of the Outstanding Amounts on due date/s, the Bank and/or RBI will 
have an un -qualified right to disclose or publish the name/s of the Borrower/s or the name/s of its partner/s or 
directors or the name/s of the guarantor/s as defaulter/s in such manner and through such medium as the Bank or 
RBI in their absolute discretion may think fit including  the photographs of the Borrower, Guarantor or any of their 
directors, partners, members or personnel.  
14.5  The Borrower undertakes that the information and data furnished by him to the Bank are true and correct. The 
Borrower further undertakes that:  
a) CIBIL, information utility and any other agency so authorized may use, process the said information and data 
disclosed by the bank in the manner as deemed fit by them; and  
b) CIBIL, information utility and any other agency so authorized may furnish for consideration, the processed 
information and data or products thereof prepared by them, to banks/financial institutions and other credit 
grantors or registered users, as may be s pecified by the RBI in this behalf.  
14.6  The Borrower hereby gives specific consent to the Bank for disclosing/submitting the ‘financial information’ as defined 
in Section 3 (13) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 ( ‘Code’ ) read with the relevant Regulations/Rules 
framed under the Code, as amended and in force from time to time and as specified there under from time to time, 
in respect of the Credit/Financial facilities availed from the Bank, from time to time, to any ‘Info rmation Utility’ ( ‘IU’) 
as defined in Section 3 (21) of the Co de, in accordance with the relevant Regulations framed under the Code, and 
directions issued by Reserve Bank of India to the Banks from time to time and hereby specifically agree to promptly 
authenticate the ‘financial information submitted by the Bank as and when requested by the concerned ‘IU’.  
ARTICLE: 15  
REMEDIES OF THE BANK  
15.1  On the occurrence of an Event of Default, the Bank, by a written notice to the Borrower, may declare the Outstandings 
and any other amounts which may be payable by the Borrower under any other agreements, documents subsisting 
between the Borrower and the B ank. Further, the Security created under the Transaction Documents as well as any 
other securities in relation to any other loan shall become enforceable, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 
the Transaction Documents or any other agreement/s o r documents.  
15.2  On the happening of any Event of Default, the defaulted amount shall carry Additional Interest, computed from the 
relevant Due Date and shall be compounded on monthly basis.  
15.3  All reasonable costs incurred by Bank after an Event of Default has occurred in connection with:  
a) Preservation of the properties (whether now or hereafter existing); or   
b) Collection of Outstandings due under the Transaction Documents; May be charged to the Borrower and 
reimbursed, as the Bank shall specify.   
15.4 The Bank may issue any certificate as regards payment of any amounts paid by the Borrower to the Bank in terms 
of the Transaction Documents only if the Borrower has paid all Outstandings and other amounts due under the 
Transaction Documents to the Bank and  the Borrower has complied with all the terms of the Transaction 
Documents.  
15.5 On the occurrence of an Event of Default, the Bank may in its sole and absolute discretion be entitled to present 
and appropriate the proceeds of all the PDCs/ECS given/handed over by the Borrower to the Bank under this 
Agreement/Loan, for all such times t hat the Outstandings are repaid to the complete satisfaction of the Bank.   
15.6 Upon occurrence of an Event of Default the Bank may exercise all rights of enforcement or otherwise with respect 
to the Security in accordance with the Transaction Documents and any other legal remedy under Applicable Laws, 
including without limitation the  Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security 
Interest Act, 2002 (the “ SARFAESI Act ”) and IBC, in equity, or otherwise.   
15.7 Without prejudice to this, the Bank shall have the irrevocable and absolute rights, without notice to the Borrower, 
to prematurely or partially close any deposit account held in the name of the Borrower or any Obligor, either singly 
or in joint names, eith er in full or in part, for appropriating the proceeds towards the Outstandings or any portion 
thereof.  
ARTICLE: 16 DISPUTE RESOLUTION  
The Parties hereto expressly agree that all disputes arising out of and/or relating to the Loan or any other relevant 
document shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court/tribunal of the city/place in which the branch of the 
Bank from where  the disbursement has been made is situated and that, accordingly, any legal action, suit or proceedings 
arising out of or in connection with this Agreement may be brought in those courts/tribunals of competent jurisdiction, 
provided that the Bank shall be  entitled to pursue the same in any other court of competent jurisdiction at any other place 
and the Borrower irrevocably submits to and accept the jurisdiction of those courts/tribunals. The Transaction documents 
shall be governed by and construed in acco rdance with Indian Law.  
ARTICLE: 17 SURVIVAL  
The provisions/clauses of this Agreement that by their nature and context (including but not limited to the provisions/ 
clauses for arbitration, jurisdiction, payment of interest, additional interest, liability of the Borrower and their covenant s, 
represen tation and warranties etc.) are intended to survive the performances, hereof, shall so survive the completion and 
termination of this Agreement.   
 
15 
 ARTICLE: 18 SEVERABILITY AND ENTIRE AGREEMENT  
Any provision of this Agreement, which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be 
ineffective to the extent of prohibition or unenforceability but shall not invalidate the remaining provisions of this 
Agreement or  Agreement or affect such provision in any other jurisdiction. This Agreement constitutes the entire 
agreement and understanding of the Parties with respect to its subject matter and shall include any annexures, recitals, 
schedules or exhibits annexed here to.  
ARTICLE: 19 VERNACULAR LANGUAGE  
The Borrower acknowledges that it has been informed about the availability of this Agreement in vernacular for reference 
purposes and the Borrower confirms having read and understood and caused to be read and understood the terms and 
conditions of this Agr eement by referring to the Agreement in vernacular.  
ARTICLE: 20 DECLARATION  
20.1  The Borrower represents and confirms that it has read and understood the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement/been read out and explained the entire of the present Agreement and the Schedules including the details given 
in the Schedules (which have been duly filled in at the time of execution).   
20.2  The Borrower hereby certifies that the particulars furnished herein are true and correct to the best of his/her/its 
knowledge and that no information has been withheld/suppressed.   
20.3  The Borrower understands that the sanction of the loan/credit facility is at the sole discretion of the Bank upon 
fulfillment of the terms and conditions as required by the Bank. The Borrower declares that he has neither taken nor 
will take loan from any o ther bank or lender for the purpose as stated in the application form without permission 
from the Bank.    
20.4  The Bank shall have the right to retain or to destroy the photograph, PDCs and other documents submitted by the 
Borrower after closure of the Loan.  
  
  
SCHEDULE   
  
Place of Execution of the Loan Agreement    
Date of Execution of the Loan Agreement    
  
Details of the Borrower  
  
If the Borrower is an Individual :    
Name:     
Age (Years):    
Father’s/Spouse’s Name:    
Permanent Address:    
Address for Communication:    
E-mail Id of the Borrower    
Contact Number of the Borrower    
If the Borrower is a Sole Proprietorship Firm:  
Name of the Firm:    
Name of the Sole Proprietor:    
Permanent Address:    
Address for Communication:    
E-mail Id of the Borrower    
Contact Number of the Borrower    
If the Borrower is a Partnership:   
Name of the Partnership Firm:    
  
 
16 
 Names of all Partners:    
  
  
  
  
  
Address of the principal place of business:    
  
  
  
  
  
Address for Communication:    
 
E-mail Id of the Borrower    
  
Contact Number of the Borrower    
  
If the Borrower is a Limited Liability Partnership :  
Name of the LLP:    
  
Address of the registered office:    
  
  
  
  
  
Address for Communication:    
  
  
  
  
  
LLP Number:    
  
Statute under which the Borrower is 
incorporated:  Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008  
E-mail Id of the Borrower    
  
Contact Number of the Borrower    
  
If the Borrower is a One Person Company   
Name of the Company:    
  
Address of the registered office:    
  
  
  
  
  
 
17 
 Address for Communication:    
  
  
  
  
  
Corporate Identification Number:    
  
Name of the Member:    
  
Statute under which the Borrower is 
incorporated:  The Companies Act, 2013  
E-mail Id of the Borrower    
  
Contact Number of the Borrower    
  
If the Borrower is a Company   
Name of the Company:    
  
Address of registered office:    
  
  
 
   
  
  
Address for Communication:    
  
  
  
  
  
Corporate Identity Number:    
  
Statute under which the Borrower is 
incorporated:  ⃝ Companies Act, 1956   
⃝ Companies Act, 2013  
E-mail Id of the Borrower    
  
Contact Number of the Borrower    
  
If the Borrower is a Society   
Name of the Society:    
  
Address of registered office:    
  
  
  
  
  
Address for Communication:    
  
  
  
  
  
 
18 
 Registered with (Authority):    
Statute under which the Borrower is 
incorporated:    
E-mail Id of the Borrower    
  
Contact Number of the Borrower    
  
If the Borrower is a Trust   
Name of the Trust:    
  
Address of registered office:    
  
  
  
  
  
Address for Communication:    
  
  
  
  
  
Registered with (Authority):    
  
Statute under which the Borrower is 
incorporated:    
E-mail Id of the Borrower    
  
Contact Number of the Borrower    
  
  
Details of the Co -Borrower(s) and Guarantor(s)  
  
1)   Name of the Co -Borrower No: 1    
Father’s/Husband’s Name    
Age (Years)    
Residential Address    
Address for Communication    
Contact Number    
  
e-Mail Id    
  
2)   Name of the Co -Borrower No: 2    
Father’s/Husband’s Name    
Age (Years)    
Residential Address    
Address for Communication    
Contact Number    
  
e-Mail Id    
  
3)   Name of the Co -Borrower No: 3    
  
 
19 
 Father’s/Husband’s Name    
  
Age (Years)    
  
Residential Address    
  
  
  
  
  
Address for Communication    
  
  
  
  
  
Contact Number    
  
e-Mail Id    
  
4)   Name of the Co -Borrower No: 4    
  
Father’s/Husband’s Name    
  
Age (Years)    
  
Residential Address    
  
 
    
  
  
  
Address for Communication    
  
  
  
  
  
Contact Number    
  
e-Mail Id    
  
5)   Name of the Guarantor No: 1    
  
Father’s/Husband’s Name    
  
Age (Years)    
  
Residential Address    
  
  
  
  
  
 
20 
 Address for Communication    
  
  
  
  
  
Contact Number    
  
e-Mail Id    
  
6)   Name of the Guarantor No: 2    
  
Father’s/Husband’s Name    
  
Age (Years)    
  
Residential Address    
  
  
  
  
  
Address for Communication    
  
  
  
  
  
Contact Number    
  
 e-Mail Id    
  
  
Details of Loan  
  
1)   Name and Address of Branch of the Bank    
  
  
  
  
  
  
2)   The Bank’s Sanction Letter Date    
  
3)   The Bank’s Sanction Letter Reference  
Number    
 
21 
 4)   Type of the Loan    
  
5)   Amount of Loan (INR)    
  
6)   Purpose of the Loan    
  
7)   Tenure of the Loan (Months)    
8)   Type of Interest    
9)   Rate of Interest     
10)   Availability Period (Months)    
11)   Period within which the Loan to be 
drawn fully    
12)   Mode of Repayment     
13)   Frequency of Repayment     
14)   Number of Instalments for Repayment     
15)   EMI Amount (INR)    
16)   Date of Commencement of EMI     
  
17)   Additional Interest (%) p. a.    
  
18)   Details of Immovable Security  Name  of  
Property  
Owner     
Property Type     
  
Address  of 
Property    
  
  
  
  
  
  
Mortgage  
Type   ⃝ Mortgage by Deposit of Title  
Deeds   
⃝ Simple Mortgage  
Ranking of 
Charge  Second Ranking Excusive Charge  
  
 
22 
 19)   Special Conditions    
  
  
  
  
20)   Fees / Charges [Applicable taxes shall be 
levied on all Fees and Charges specified 
above. All Fees, Charges and Tax are 
nonrefundable]  a) ECS/NACH/Cheque Bounce Charges, per 
instance of dishonour of  
ECS/NACH/Cheque (INR)    
b) Late Payment Charges for Delayed EMI 
payment    
c) Life Insurance Premium for Borrower 
(INR) (Only if Life Insurance coverage is 
opted by the Borrower, and one Time 
throughout the tenure of the Loan. To 
be borne by the Borrower)    
d) CERSAI Charges (INR)    
21)   Details of Post Dated Security Cheques   Cheque Number  Bank A/c Number  Name of 
Bank/Branch   
  
      
  
      
  
      
  
  
Additional Covenants  
  
1. Affirmative Covenants   
a) The Borrower shall notify the Bank of any change in address and/or the status, terms or place of employment, 
nationality and/or citizenship of the Obligors.  
b) The Security provider shall continue to remain in occupation/possession of the Secured Assets and shall not part 
with the possession thereof.  
c) The Obligors shall, without any dispute, accept the statement of accounts and computation of interest provided 
by the Bank, as final, binding and conclusive evidence and proof of the correctness of the amounts mentioned 
in such statements of account and/or  computation of interest furnished by the Bank and shall be bound by the 
same.  
d) Unless otherwise approved by the Bank in writing, the Obligors (as the case maybe) shall not:  
i) make any change in its constitution or permit any change in its key persons whereby the effective beneficial 
ownership or control of the Obligor changes;  
ii) Create, assume or incur any further Indebtedness.  
e) If the Borrower is a company or a one person company , the Borrower shall:  
i) Promptly inform the Bank of change in location of its registered office. ii) Intimate the Bank within seven days 
of service of any winding -up notice served on the Borrower and steps and defenses they propose to take/have 
taken to resist the claim of the creditor of the Borrower.  
f) If the Borrower is a partnership or LLP , the Borrower shall :  
i)  Promptly inform the Bank in the event of death or insolvency or retirement of any of its partners; ii) 
 Inform the Bank of any change in the address of its place of business, business activity etc.; iii) 
 Take prior written consent from the Bank for distributing any proceeds to its partners;  
g) If the Borrower is a sole proprietorship , the Borrower shall :  
i) Notify the Bank of any change in the Borrower’s business.   
ii) Inform the Bank of any change in the address of its place of business, business activity, etc.  
 
23 
 h) If the Borrower is an individual , the Borrower shall:  
i) Intimate and instruct his/her employer to transfer every month from the Borrower’s salary and emoluments 
a specific sum (being the EMI) towards the repayment of the Loan, to the Bank.  The Borrower confirms that 
the Bank shall have the authority to approac h the Borrower’s employer directly for repayment of EMI and/or 
any other charges/sum due from the Borrower to the Bank;  
ii)  Notify the Bank of any change in the Borrower’s employment, business, profession or residential address;  
2. Negative Covenants  
a) The Borrower shall not, during subsistence of the Loan:  
i) Enter into any borrowing arrangement (secured or unsecured) without written permission of the Bank. ii) 
Undertake any guarantee obligation on behalf of anybody. iii) Shall not sell, mortgage, lease, surrender or 
otherwise howsoever alienate, encumber or create any third party interest in respect to any of his/her/its assets 
without express permission from the Bank.   
iv) Repay the loans/advances raised from friends and relatives. v) 
 Pay commission to guarantors.  
b) If the Borrower is a company or a one person company , the Borrower shall not:  
i) Take any corporate governance actions such that borrowing of the Loan becomes illegal.  
ii) Make any change in the constitution, management or existing ownership or control or share capital of the 
Borrower without the prior consent of the Bank.  
iii) Enter into a reconstruction or arrangement or merge or amalgamate with any other company or body 
corporate.  
iv) Amend its memorandum of association and articles of association.   
v) Make any reference to the Corporate Debt Restructuring Cell, National Company Law Tribunal or National 
Company Appellate Law Tribunal or any other forum or any other statutory body or for initiation of 
insolvency resolution process under the IBC or to rest ructure its constitution/ debt or rehabilitate/ 
reconstitute the Guarantor and/or its management;  
c) If the Borrower is a partnership or LLP , the Borrower shall not:  
i)  Dissolve the partnership or enter any new partners to the firm or make any change in its constitution; ii) 
 Alter the partnership deed.  
d) If the Borrower is a sole proprietorship , the Borrower shall not:  
i)  Make any change to its constitution, business, management, ownership or control; ii) 
 Amend its constitutional documents.  
e) If the Borrower is an individual , the Borrower shall not leave India for employment or business or stay on a long 
term during the tenure of the Loan.  
3. Representations and Warranties  
a) If the Borrower is a company or a one person company :  
i) The Borrower is a company, duly incorporated and validly existing under the law of its country of 
incorporation.  
ii) All necessary approvals for availing the Loan have been obtained, including but not limited to the 
resolutions of the board of directors and shareholders of the Borrower, as applicable and that the 
Borrower will at all times till the full repayment of the Outstanding Obligations to the Bank, keep all such 
approvals valid and subsisting.  
iii) There has been no Material Adverse Effect on the financial condition of the Borrower, nor has any event 
which is prejudicial to the interest of the Bank taken place since the date of latest audited financials of the 
Borrower.  
iv) No director/member of the Borrower has been declared to be a Wilful Defaulter.  
b) If the Borrower is a partnership or LLP :  
i) No partner/managing partner has been declared to be a Wilful Defaulter.  
ii) No HUF is a partner in the Borrower. iii)  The partners who have signed the Agreement and the other 
Transaction Documents are the only partners of the Borrower.  
c) If the Borrower is a sole proprietorship:   
i) The sole proprietor has not been declared a Wilful Defaulter.  
ii) He/she is the sole proprietor of the Borrower and is solely responsible for the liabilities of the firm and is 
personally for performance of all obligations of the Borrower under the Transaction Documents. d)   If the 
Borrower is an individual:   
 i)  The Borrower has not been declared a Wilful Defaulter.  
4. Events of Default  
a) In case the Borrower is a company or a one person company :  
i) If the Borrower becomes subject to proceedings for taking it into liquidation, whether voluntarily or 
compulsorily, may be or have been commenced or if any resolution for voluntary winding -up is passed or 
if an order of a court of competent jurisdiction is  made or the Borrower suspends payments or announces 
 
24 
 an intention to do so or suggests readjustment or rescheduling of its repayment obligations, provided that 
in case of proceedings for liquidation undertaken compulsorily, the same is not vacated, stayed or abated 
within the earlier of 30 (Thirty) days from  the date of first hearing or admittance.   
ii) The Borrower is unable to or has admitted in writing its inability to pay its debts as and when the same are 
due.  
iii) If an attachment or distraint has been levied on the Securities or any part thereof for recovery of any dues 
from Borrower, provided that in the event such attachment or distraint is done by a statutory authority 
then if the same is not cured within 30 day s from the attachment or distraint.  
iv) If the Central, State or any other governmental authority has taken any action whereby the Borrower is 
deprived of substantial part of its assets, including but not limited to acquisition of the Securities, the 
release, inhibition, modification, suspension  or extinguishment of any of the rights, or benefits or 
imposition of any restrictions on the Securities, or prevents the Borrower from conducting its business 
operations or substantial part thereof, revokes, terminates of, refuse renewal of authorizations  pertaining 
to the Securities and the same is not vacated, stayed or abated within 30 days from the date of initiation 
of such action. In the event of property other than the Securities, the cure period for the same shall be 30 
(Thirty) days.  
v) If there is a change in the constitution, management or existing ownership or control of share capital of 
the Borrower.  
b) In case the Borrower is a partnership or LLP:   
i) There is any change in the constitution of the Borrower without the approval of the Bank.  
ii) If the Borrower is dissolved or a notice of dissolution is given to it or any of its partners or if the Borrower 
or any of its partners commits an act of insolvency or makes an application for being declared insolvent or 
an order is passed declaring it or them or any of them an insolvent.   
c) In case the Borrower is a sole proprietorship:   
i) If the sole proprietor of the Borrower commits an act of insolvency or makes an application for being 
declared insolvent or an order is passed declaring it insolvent;  
ii) In case of death of the sole proprietor of the Borrower;  
iii) If any two persons amongst the sole proprietor of the Borrower and/or any other Obligor who are married 
to each other are divorced.  
 d)  In case the Borrower is an individual or a sole proprietorship:   
i) If the Borrower commits an act of insolvency or makes an application for being declared insolvent or an 
order is passed declaring it insolvent;  
ii) In case of death of the Borrower;  
iii) If any two persons amongst the Borrower and/or any other Obligor who are married to each other are 
divorced.  
     
 
25 
 SIGNING PAGE   
  
DECLARATION IF ANY BORROWER(S) SIGN(S) IN VERNACULAR LANGUAGE  
  
We, the below named persons, confirm and state that the contents of this document have been fully explained to the 
Borrower(s) in vernacular language (viz., __________________)  known to him/her, and he/she admitted and acknowledged 
the contents of same.  
  
Name of Witness  Address of Witness  Signature  
    
  
    
    
  
    
  
The Borrower(s) hereby expressly acknowledge(s) and confirm(s) that the Borrower(s) has/have read (or have been read 
over), verified, understood and agree and acknowledge all the terms and conditions contained herein and hereby record 
their respective sign atures in token of acceptance of/agreement to the same, on this Agreement on the day, month and 
year, and at the place mentioned above.   
  
Borrower  
  
  
__________________  
(Signature) 
Name:  
  Co-Borrower 1  
  
  
___________________  
(Signature) 
Name:  
  
Co-Borrower 2  
  
  
  
___________________  
(Signature) 
Name:   Co-Borrower 3  
  
  
  
___________________  
(Signature) 
Name:   
Co-Borrower 4  
  
  
  
___________________  
(Signature) 
Name:   For Ujjivan Small Finance Bank Limited  
  
  
___________________  
(Signature)  
Name of Authorised Signatory:   
Designation:   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
